# bitcoind-coinbase-test
### How to use bitcoind Docker image

This image contains the main binaries from the Bitcoin Core project - `bitcoind`, `bitcoin-cli` and `bitcoin-tx`. It behaves like a binary, so you can pass any arguments to the image and they will be forwarded to the `bitcoind` binary:

```sh
$ docker run --rm -it ruimarinho/bitcoin-core \
  -printtoconsole \
  -regtest=1 \
  -rpcallowip=172.17.0.0/16 \
  -rpcauth=test:02e315e2ed5a14107317c9c216caf844$767e20d1f81ff61fd5499a94800ac4f83389c09107ce5f68006325223f5dd85b
  # Defaults are username: test, password: password
```
To set up custom authorisation, run rpcauth.py with `<user>` and `<password>` as arguments and replace rpcauth with the resulting string:

```sh
$ ./rpcauth.py <username> <password>
```

By default, `bitcoind` will run as user `bitcoin` for security reasons and with its default data dir (`~/.bitcoin`). If you'd like to customize where `bitcoin-core` stores its data, you must use the `BITCOIN_DATA` environment variable. The directory will be automatically created with the correct permissions for the `bitcoin` user and `bitcoin-core` automatically configured to use it.

```sh
❯ docker run --env BITCOIN_DATA=/var/lib/bitcoin-core --rm -it ruimarinho/bitcoin-core \
  -printtoconsole \
  -regtest=1
```

You can also mount a directory in a volume under `/home/bitcoin/.bitcoin` in case you want to access it on the host:

```sh
❯ docker run -v ${PWD}/data:/home/bitcoin/.bitcoin -it --rm ruimarinho/bitcoin-core \
  -printtoconsole \
  -regtest=1
```

You can optionally create a service using `docker-compose`:

```yml
bitcoin-core:
  image: ruimarinho/bitcoin-core
  command:
    -printtoconsole
    -regtest=1
```

### Using RPC to interact with the daemon

There are two communications methods to interact with a running Bitcoin Core daemon.

The first one is using a cookie-based local authentication. It doesn't require any special authentication information as running a process locally under the same user that was used to launch the Bitcoin Core daemon allows it to read the cookie file previously generated by the daemon for clients. The downside of this method is that it requires local machine access.

The second option is making a remote procedure call using a username and password combination. This has the advantage of not requiring local machine access, but in order to keep your credentials safe you should use the newer `rpcauth` authentication mechanism.

